[Music]
societies
fail
but none fail because they focused too
much attention
on detecting and correcting their errors
that is to say
criticizing too much or too often
a criticism is an explanation of why
something is faulty flawed or false
it is the necessary precondition for
solving a problem to identify what is
wrong and correct it all extinct
societies have failed because they have
failed to solve their problems in time
one important reason is that in those
societies
they have become taboos that have slowed
the rate of problem solving
traditions about who to defer to for
example
the belief that the king must always be
deferred to because implicitly he must
always be right because he is divinely
so
or some leadership committee or the
commissars and so on are required to be
above criticism in order to maintain
stability by which is meant order laws
appear that make it mandatory to speak
with deference about the ruler or rulers
and never to criticize them to be
critical of this but never of that
indeed to be especially critical of
certain ideas like say freedom or
equality skeptical and perhaps insulting
and emotional not critical in a
reasonable way so for example north
koreans must never criticize the leader
or regime but they should be careful to
be especially critical of the united
states and the system in south korea
more insulting and emotionally critical
that is not reasonably critical in a
genuine tradition of criticism no such
taboos can persist
even if they arise for a time because
they will be criticized and corrected in
all areas of life in an open and dynamic
society where there exists a tradition
of criticism frank and honest
discussions can be had about all the
factors on all sides from all
perspectives about the most pressing
problems without this panopticon
approach to speech and criticism we end
up in a state where certain situations
and scenarios cannot be broached and
never recognized as actually of
civilization or consequence the
traditions within societies that do not
cultivate a tradition of criticism do
not allow for the conditions for the
all-important problems to be identified
in time or if they do they do not permit
them to be broached or if they do not
broached in the most effective ways
were any of this false those
civilizations would still be with us but
they are not because they did not solve
their problems in time the ancient city
of pompeii did not solve its problems in
time they did not know enough about the
volcano why not why was their progress
too slow in identifying the risk and
saving the members if only by fleeing in
time criticism is destabilizing in our
society of ideas but not the society
itself that thrives upon criticism a
tradition of criticism imported into say
north korea would destabilize that
society but not civilization
indeed it would bring about improvements
to civilization by criticizing it one
might claim but there have been
countless societies without a tradition
of criticism that have been stable i
suspect many of them for far longer
periods of time than our own but this is
false
there have not been all those were
demonstrably by the very evidence of
their own non-existence now all
inherently unstable moreover what
stability they did superficially appear
to possess was due to the opposite of a
tradition of criticism they enforced the
status quo this is the inherent
instability of that system
for any society the mere appearance of
stability is not actual stability unless
there is a good explanation as to why
things are not changing for example it
may superficially appear that an ancient
tribe that has existed in the same way
for thousands of years is stable but
this is only apparent stability
not genuine stability they are like
pencils balanced on their tip sure if
nothing else changes in the environment
there is no little bump the pencil
remains stable balanced precariously but
is this actual stability what mechanism
is there to prevent it toppling over or
is there every reason to think that any
number of things could make it fall
our thousands of year old ancient
society is unstable in the same way
there is every reason to think that any
problem we would easily solve would wipe
them out their society is inherently
unstable unlike ours which is stable but
only if we maintain a tradition of
criticism ours is not like that
precariously balanced pencil standing on
its tip but rather it's more like a
modern skyscraper with earthquake
prevention mechanisms a great
firefighting system and
computer-controlled environment
surrounded by surveillance cameras and
with a full-time team of engineers and
others maintaining its day-to-day
stability checking each rivet and bolt
and column with sensors placed all about
the precision engineered structure it is
maintained and many of the causes
keeping it up are in the conscious
awareness of those experts who are
continuously finding areas of concern
and correcting problems to ensure that
should the building move even just a
little this way or that the support
structure corrects it to keep it upright
for all societies or individuals
problems are inevitable
some large number could be lethal and
will be lethal permanently revealing the
inherent and latent instability that was
always there in the system by destroying
it
unless of course the problem is
identified in time and corrected in time
to maintain the stability
but that requires criticism in time and
continuous criticism in time
but that of course takes a particular
kind of tradition one that protects
criticism all criticism
it is the only thing that is an
explanation for genuine stability which
is quite unlike superficial stability
that has persisted but only by good
fortune
we have that too but not only that we
also have a deeper explanation of the
causes that keep us stable the thing
that allows us to change with the
problems of our times by adapting making
progress and improving in time
it's what we're used to now we're used
to criticizing things that's our
tradition it's what keeps the whole
thing stable and the whole thing
persisting over time
[Music]
you